DEVELOPER_SETUP.md, before:

# Developer setup

* You will need to install Ruby 2.5, and preferably a ruby version manager. I recommend using [chruby][chruby] and [ruby-install][ruby-install].
* Install bundler (the Ruby gem dependency manager) `gem install bundler`
* Check out the pact_broker repository and cd into it.
* Run `bundle install`. If you have not got mysql or postgres installed locally, comment out the `mysql2` and `pg` development dependency lines in `pact_broker.gemspec`, as these are only really required on Travis.
* Run `bundle exec rake pact_broker:dev:setup`. This will create an example application that you can run locally, that uses the local source code.
* To run the example:

      cd dev
      bundle install
      bundle exec rackup

* The application will be available on `http://localhost:9292`

## Running the tests

To run everything (specs, pact verifications, vulnerability scan...):

`bundle exec rake`

To run a smaller subset of the tests:

`bundle exec rake spec`

To run the "quick tests" (skip the lengthy migration specs)

`bundle exec rake spec:quick`

[chruby]: https://github.com/postmodern/chruby
[ruby-install]: https://github.com/postmodern/ruby-install

Commit message:

docs: add instructions for running single spec

DEVELOPER_SETUP.md, after:

# Developer setup

* You will need to install Ruby 2.5, and preferably a ruby version manager. I recommend using [chruby][chruby] and [ruby-install][ruby-install].
* Install bundler (the Ruby gem dependency manager) `gem install bundler`
* Check out the pact_broker repository and cd into it.
* Run `bundle install`. If you have not got mysql or postgres installed locally, comment out the `mysql2` and `pg` development dependency lines in `pact_broker.gemspec`, as these are only really required on Travis.
* Run `bundle exec rake pact_broker:dev:setup`. This will create an example application that you can run locally, that uses the local source code.
* To run the example:

      cd dev
      bundle install
      bundle exec rackup

* The application will be available on `http://localhost:9292`

## Running the tests

To run everything (specs, pact verifications, vulnerability scan...):

`bundle exec rake`

To run a smaller subset of the tests:

`bundle exec rake spec`

To run the "quick tests" (skip the lengthy migration specs)

`bundle exec rake spec:quick`

To run a single spec:

`bundle exec rspec path_to_your_spec.rb`

[chruby]: https://github.com/postmodern/chruby
[ruby-install]: https://github.com/postmodern/ruby-install
